https://hazelmaeby.github.io/

We create a repo on Github from our main account page. Click the Repositories tab near the top, and find the green "New" button on the right. In the new page that opens, we can assign a name for this new repository, which will hold all the files for this new project. We can also make it public or private, and we can assign a license type. Hit the green "Create repository" button and it's done. Now the empty repo exists on the server, and we can clone, or copy, it to our local machine to beign working. To do that, we grab the URL for the new repo from the main repo page on Github; it's on the right side labeled "HTTPS clone url". Copy that address, and we use Terminal to navigate to a folder on our local machine where we want to put these new files. Type "git clone" and paste in the URL, and then hit enter. It should copy the new repo to our hard drive. Hooray.

Open Source refers to software that allows other developers to view the underlying code. Many commercial software developers do not encourage devs to view the code, to protect against unwelcome changes to the programming, or to thwart the theft of intellectual property. Any dev could take an open source project and modify the code as they see fit however, for private or public use.In some cases, a dev could profit commercially from this work, but not in all cases.

Open Source is an enormous step forward in providing software tools that grow, expand and evolve to fill people's needs. Devs in different places can build on the work of each other to create dynamic and powerful tools. If one dev builds a tool to satisfy one specific need, another dev could take her work and expand it to meet a different kind of need. I see valuable potential in this kind of framework. At the same time, I'm continually amazed at the generosity of developers to share their work with others and with no expectation of getting paid for it.

Devs assign different kinds of licenses to their software in an effort to control how others use it. Some allow people to do anything they want with it, even make changes and charge money for it. Some do not allow commercial profits, and others only allow for private use of the software. The list of possible limitations and liberties under a license is long.

I had been exposed to git and Github a few times before, but I never grasped more than the concept of how it worked. In the previous exercise, I saw first-hand how we invoke git in a folder to manage files of any kind at all. Now I see how the editing process works within git. This lesson helped me get more comfortable with the work flow, from pull to edit to commit to merge. I see how individual team members can start each day by updating their code and getting to work on separate tasks. I imagine that different teams have different best practices, in terms of managing many forks at once, or preferring to merge more often and maintain a unified master.

I found the additional practice of creating branches helpful in this lesson. I did not need to look elsewhere for resources, as I did in the last lesson.